.Net is an opensource developer platform for building different types of apps.

Language+Libraries

it uses the language csharp,fsharp,visual basic

platforms are=.net core:Runs anywhere macos,linux,windows
              .net framework:websites,services and apps on windows
              xamarian/mono:a .net for mobile.

.NET provides a standard set of base class libraries and APIs that are common to all .NET applications.

.NET comes in four flavors: .NET Framework, .NET Core, Xamarin, and Universal Windows Platform (UWP).

These implementations combined are called the .NET development platform. Each of them contains frameworks and libraries 
to build various applications.

Pros of .NET development
Object-oriented software development model
Reliable and simple caching system
Visual Studio IDE
Cross-platform design of .NET Core
Flexible deployment and easy maintenance


MVC:Model view controller
MVC is a design pattern used to decouple user-interface (view), data (model), and application logic (controller). 
This pattern helps to achieve separation of concerns.

Using the MVC pattern for websites, requests are routed to a Controller that is responsible for working with 
the Model to perform actions and/or retrieve data. 
The Controller chooses the View to display and provides it with the Model. The View renders the final page, based on the data in the Model.

Models and Data:
Create clean model classes and easily bind them to your database. Declaratively define validation rules, using C# attributes, 
which are applied on the client and server.

ASP.NET supports many database engines including SQLite, SQL Server, MySQL, PostgreSQL, DB2 and more, 
as well as non-relational stores such as MongoDB, Redis, and Azure Cosmos DB.

Simply route requests to controller actions, implemented as normal C# methods.
 Data from the request path, query string, and request body are automatically bound to method parameters.

The Razor syntax provides a simple, clean, and lightweight way to render HTML content based on your view. Razor lets you render a page using C#,
 producing fully HTML5 compliant web pages.

